# Coastal Ocean coordination meeting minutes

30th October 2023.

Participants: Mike Bell, Segolene Berthou, Ana Aguiar, Matt Martin, Jonathan Tinker, Hedong Liu, Jeff Polton, Susan Kay, Richard Renshaw.

----------

## Agenda :
1. Check what outcomes we want from the meeting
1. Agree responsibilities of group (see suggestions under A. below)
1. Discuss how the group will go about its business (see suggestions under B. below)
1. Agree what to do next (e.g. who will chair future meetings)

A. Roles/responsibilities of group :
   - Own a process by which demands for the system's development can be defined (fixes for poor system performance, new science, limiting technical debt) and resource prioritisation for development agreed [I think that a tickets and committee approach can work for this]
   - (Own ? and) Review the development and release timeline for new CO configurations/versions (and retirement timeline for older ones?)
   - Own and Review the integration (with coupled models and DA) and implementation timeline for CO configurations/versions being targeted by Weather and Climate Science [implementation of a subset of CO releases is OK and a realistic expectation in my view]
   - Review and monitor the evaluation process for new models (and performance of existing systems?)
   - Ensure that the configuration information and evaluations are openly available [stretch - and help work out how to improve academic use]

B. How will the group go about its business?
Andy thinks it needs people within the group (not necessarily the chairs) to own tools (e.g. github ticketing, timeline plans) that can be used to assist the group.
The chairs' roles are:
   - to ensure that the group meets at a regular frequency and takes appropriate prioritisation and resourcing decisions
   - to seek to resolve disputes and escalate issues when necessary

----------

## Decisions:
   - The terms of reference proposed by Andy Saulter will be adopted.
   - Ana Aguiar and Matt Martin will co-chair the CO coordination group.
   - The existing CO Github repository will be used to keep track of issues and to keep a record of the CO coordination meetings
   - A series of meetings will be organised every 3 months, with the first one in a few weeks time.
   - The people at this meeting will be on the CO coordination group, and Breo Gomez will be invited to the meetings to represent the waves and surge aspects.

## Actions:
   - 1.1 Ana and Matt to send a message to Breo Gomez inviting him to be part of the CO coordination group.
   - 1.2 Ana and Matt to set up a 3-monthly series of meetings for CO coordination, with the first one in a few weeks time.
   - 1.3 Ana and Matt to organise (with Jeff's help) a Github repository issues under the JMMP Github organisation for
      - minutes of CO coordination meetings
      - a list of issues for developments, issues and coordination tasks, linking to a roadmap for integration


